In this exercise, you are asked to revisit the testing plans for business A and
business B and list what tracking should be in place before an experiment began.
Let's review business A.
Business A wanted to make changes to a page used by existing customers.
Specifically, business A wanted to change the design of the page to
push more customers to use a feature that allowed them to link their social accounts.
Because this page and feature had a limited small number of users,
we recommended they run an A/B test with one experiment group
viewing the control and one experiment group viewing a change to the page.
When considering what businesses A should track,
we know it is important to track user characteristics that change by session,
like device and browser type,
in case there are differences in results by these factors.
In order to calculate the conversion rate for the control and
test groups and to ensure that they show a consistent test state to each user,
that is, that users in one test state
only ever see that test state during the experiment.
Business A should track which users see the original control page and
which users see the page with the change
intended to highlight the social linking feature.
Finally, business A needs to track whether the users perform the desired action.
In this case, linking their social accounts.
They will need to track which users perform this action so the rate
of conversion can be compared between the test and control groups.
Now let's look at business B.
Business B was a gallery that wanted to make
changes to a landing page visited by new customers.
Specifically, business B wanted to change the number of pictures on the page to see
what density of pictures would encourage
customers to click through to learn more about the gallery.
Because this page had a high amount of traffic,
we recommended they run a multivariate test that
tested a different number of pictures across and down the page.
When considering what business B should track,
we know it is important to track user characteristics that change by session,
like device and browser and operating system.
We also learn it is important to track the information
needed to decide whether a user should be part of an experiment group.
In the case of business B,
this means tracking whether a user is a first-time visitor,
so they can know whether they consider that visit as
part of their experiment aimed at new users.
As previously discussed, one way to do this would be to drop a cookie and not show
the experiment or include
a user's actions if the user already has a cookie from the site.
In order to calculate the conversion rate for the control in
test groups and in order to ensure they show a consistent test state each user,
business B will also need to track
the exact version of the multivariate test seen by a visitor.
Finally, business B needs to track whether the users perform the desired action.
In this case, clicking through to learn more about the gallery.
Only then can the rate of conversion be compared
between the control and the many test groups.